# DNAseq_Analysis
Variant Calling pipeline on WES data | Calculate PRS for breast cancer for East Asian Subpopulation

This project, a part of BIOL6150 (Genomics and Applied Bioinformatics) course, our team developed a pipeline for analyzing NGS whole exome sequence data from 1000 Genomes Project. In the first part(project notebooks 1-3), using paired-end reads from a Columbian Male individual from 1000 Genome Project, we performed quality control, trimmed low quality reads using FastQC and Fastp respectively. This was followed by aligning QC'd reads to GRCh38 human reference genome using Minimap2 to obtain aligned reads in SAM format. Manipulating the output SAM file using SAMtools, we created pileup file using Mpileup to summarize the aligned reads at different genomic regions to prepare the data for variant calling. For variant calling including SNPs and short indels, we used Varscan followed by annotating identified variants using snpEff. Finally, the variants of interest are filtered and analyzed using Linux command line utilities. 

For the second part, we conducted a Genome Wide Association Study(GWAS) to calculate Polygenic Risk Score(PRS) for East Asian Subpopulation(EAS) for breast cancer. The source VCF files were obtained from 1000 Genomes Project. The VCF files were processed, annotated and called for variants in clinically important genes for this subpopulation using PGS catalog using Plink to derive the risk associated with EAS individuals for developing breast cancer. All the analysis was carried out on Georgia Tech's High Performance Cluster PACE-ICE.
